index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: home
---

This is a *bare-minimum* template to create a Jekyll site that uses the [Just the Docs] theme. You can easily set the created site to be published on [GitHub Pages] – the [README] file explains how to do that, along with other details.

If [Jekyll] is installed on your computer, you can also build and preview the created site *locally*. This lets you test changes before committing them, and avoids waiting for GitHub Pages.[^1] And you will be able to deploy your local build to a different platform than GitHub Pages.

More specifically, the created site:

- uses a gem-based approach, i.e. uses a `Gemfile` and loads the `just-the-docs` gem
- uses the [GitHub Pages / Actions workflow] to build and publish the site on GitHub Pages

Other than that, you're free to customize sites that you create with this template, however you like. You can easily change the versions of `just-the-docs` and Jekyll it uses, as well as adding further plugins.

[Browse our documentation][Just the Docs] to learn more about how to use this theme.

To get started with creating a site, simply:

1. click "[use this template]" to create a GitHub repository
2. go to Settings > Pages > Build and deployment > Source, and select GitHub Actions

If you want to maintain your docs in the `docs` directory of an existing project repo, see [Hosting your docs from an existing project repo](https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/blob/main/README.md#hosting-your-docs-from-an-existing-project-repo) in the template README.

----

[^1]: [It can take up to 10 minutes for changes to your site to publish after you push the changes to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/creating-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll#creating-your-site).

[Just the Docs]: https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/
[GitHub Pages]: https://docs.github.com/en/pages
[README]: https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/blob/main/README.md
[Jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com
[GitHub Pages / Actions workflow]: https://github.blog/changelog/2022-07-27-github-pages-custom-github-actions-workflows-beta/
[use this template]: https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/generate

Commit message:

feat(setup): set up basic doc repository

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: home
nav_order: 1
permalink: /
---

# Welcome to Async Rust!

> ℹ️  This is a personal note guide designed for the study of asynchronous Rust, use at you own risk!

The combination of Rust's low-level architecture as well as memory safety and ownership model make it an excellent candidate for *easily* writing <u>safe(r)</u> multihreaded code:

* Rust being low-level allows for excellent runtime multithreading (no garbage collector)!
* Rust's ownership model makes it very difficult to introduce data races into a multithreaded environment.
* Rust's [package ecosystem](https://crates.io/categories/asynchronous) has excellent support for asynchronous paradigms.

---

## A few definitions

> 📚 **asynchronous code** describes code that can execute in a *non-blocking* way and *out-of-order*. This is especially important to keep in mind in the context of Rust ownership since `async` functions can theoretically live for as long as the program itself, so any data used must be *owned* by that function.

> 📚 a **lock** is a low-level asynchronous primitive used to synchronize data across threads. There are several types of locks in Rust, such a `Mutex` and `RwLock`.

> 📚 an **executor** describes is an environment used to run `async` code. Simply put it is a set of code, often library-generated, which is responsible for running your `async` functions and handling their distribution across multiple hardware threads.

> 📚 **hardware threads** are an os-level primitive for handling concurrency. When you create a new hardware thread, you are creating a 1:1 copy of the stack which then lives independently and simultaneously to the rest of your program. *Hardware threads are computationally expensive*, which is why we generally refer to techniques such as [thread monitors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monitor_(synchronization)) to distribute *many* `async` operations across *few* hardware threads.

---

## Some things to keep in mind

Rust is *not* magic. What I mean by that is that -like any other programming language- Rust will not save you from yourself. It is *still* possible to introduce data races and it *still* possible to engineer new and creative **runtime** exceptions. Where Rust's truly shines is in it's ability to let let you focus on algorithms instead of the implementation of low-level primitives: existing abstractions allow you to focus on the problem at hand, instead having to deal with already-solved problems. Think of Rust in this context as a mix between high-level abstractions while maintaining low-level performance.

> ⚠️ Note that this still comes at the cost of a higher learning curve, especially when considering lifetimes (which can be quite a hindrance initially).

---

## Sources

This repo is largely based on the [async rust book](https://rust-lang.github.io/async-book/), as well as some personal research.
